What do you think makes us valuable
to Jehovah?
Is it our natural ability?
our many years of faithful service?
Is it our Bethel assignment?
Well, turn with me in your Bibles
to 1 Peter chapter 3,
and we’ll let Jehovah answer this for us
through his Word.
First Peter 3 and we’ll read verse 4:
“But let it be the secret person of the heart
“in the incorruptible adornment
of the quiet and mild spirit,
which is of great value in the eyes of God.”
Now, of course,
we know in the full context
of the opening verses
here in 1 Peter chapter 3,
Peter is referring to Christian women.
But if we isolate this phrase in verse 4,
“the secret person of the heart,”
that applies to all of us,
brothers and sisters,
because it’s referring to who we are
on the inside
—our thoughts, our beliefs, our emotions.
That’s why David prayed at Psalm 51:10
for Jehovah to create within him
“a pure heart,”
because that’s what Jehovah sees
and examines,
that is what is valuable to him,
and that’s what all of us are striving to do
—to serve him in that way.
And the beautiful thing
is that when Jehovah sees
that we’re trying to serve him this way,
not only does that make us valuable to him
but he will also give us whatever we need
in whatever assignment we happen to have.
Now, just to prove this,
let’s look at three different occasions
in various stages of David’s life,
all related to his assignment in warfare.
We’ll start with the account
in 1 Samuel chapter 17.
When it was determined
that David was going to fight Goliath,
you’ll recall that he was clothed
with Saul’s armor.
Now, likely that was quite the privilege
—to fight with the king’s armor.
But notice the middle of verse 39.
After David tries it on,
look at what happens:
“David said to Saul:
“‘I am unable to go in these things,
“for I am not used to them.’
So David took them off.”
So it was valuable armor,
but David wasn’t equipped to use it.
It didn’t fit him or his circumstances
at the time.
But you notice
David didn’t let that stop him.
Instead, he used what worked for him.
He looked for five smooth stones,
and with Jehovah’s help,
that was more than enough
for him to carry out his assignment.
Perhaps we know of brothers and sisters,
maybe here at Bethel or in the field,
who at one time may have been hesitant
to have a Bible study
or to engage
in some other aspect of the ministry,
maybe because they felt they didn’t have
the skill of a seasoned pioneer.
And yet they excelled,
and Jehovah blessed their efforts.
You see, they didn’t let that stop them.
They just worked with what they had
—their love for Jehovah, their sincerity—
and Jehovah blessed them.
The point is, because of our circumstances
we may not all have
the experience, the training
—the figurative king’s armor, so to speak—
for a particular assignment,
but we still should not let that stop us
in our efforts to serve Jehovah.
We find what works for us.
And it may be that for a time
we may feel that we’re just working
with a couple of figurative smooth stones.
But Jehovah says that is more than enough
for us to carry out our assignment.
Well, let’s consider the second occasion.
Sometime later, now David is trained,
he’s skilled, and he’s quite the warrior.
And in 1 Samuel 18:4,
he gets another privilege.
This time it’s to use
the armor of Saul’s son, Jonathan.
And he’s successful.
He wins many battles.
To the point where, in verse 7,
the women are celebrating:
“Saul has struck down his thousands,
and David his tens of thousands.”
Well, what makes David so successful?
One Watchtower  noted
that David’s “fighting
was a matter of courage”
because he “repeatedly . . .
inquired of Jehovah
“as to his moving into battle,
“showing that he was being guided
by [Jehovah]
and not merely love of conquest.”
What can we take away from this?
Even if we’re privileged
to do many things in the organization,
we should never let our intellect,
our privilege, our position,
our natural abilities stop us
from seeking Jehovah’s direction first.
That can help us to maintain humility
—to keep us valuable to Jehovah.
I thought it was interesting
that The Watchtower  also mentioned
one of the reasons
that the women were able to sing
and celebrate David
was because of how David
inspired his men in battle.
So, clearly, David must have worked well
along with others.
He encouraged his men.
He motivated them.
He brought out the best in them.
And together,
they were able to have many victories
in behalf of Jehovah.
Well, isn’t that a nice reminder
for family heads, congregation elders,
our overseers and crew leaders
here at Bethel?
When we maintain the right disposition,
Jehovah can use us to inspire
—to motivate—
and to encourage
those whom we work with.
And then,
together we can accomplish much
to Jehovah’s praise.
One final occasion,
this time in 2 Samuel.
At this point, David is now older.
He’s won many battles.
But in yet another war with the Philistines,
notice what happens to him.
Notice 2 Samuel chapter 21.
In 2 Samuel 21, we’ll read verse 15.
It says: “Once again there was war
between the Philistines and Israel.
“So David and his servants went down
and fought the Philistines,
but David became exhausted.”
This time, David, even with his armor,
was in a situation
that almost got him killed.
Now, the courage was still there,
but his strength wasn’t.
He was exhausted.
So in verse 17,
how grateful he must have been
that men like Abishai
had kept an eye on him
and quickly came to his aid.
If you go back a couple of chapters
to chapter 18,
in verses 3 and 4,
this matter of David going out to fight
had come up before.
But you notice when you look at those verses,
it was not as if the men were stopping David
from doing anything.
They just wanted him to do work
that fit his circumstances.
And in verse 4,
we see the wisdom of David
in agreeing to do so.
Doesn’t this make us think
of our dear, faithful older ones
in the family?
We love all of you so dearly.
We hold you in high esteem,
and we know that Jehovah treasures
and values you as well
because he sees your heart.
And he knows that your strength
may not be as it once was,
but your faith, your love,
your courage, your zeal
—it’s all there,
and it’s as strong as ever.
So we’re so appreciative
of our brotherhood and this Bethel family,
where we have members like Abishai
and where it’s such a privilege
for them and us
to come to your aid
and support you when we can.
And Jehovah certainly appreciates
your willingness to do
whatever work you’re able to do
as it fits your circumstances.
So, what a reminder it is to know
that it’s not our strength or natural ability
that draws us closer to Jehovah.
It’s that “secret person of the heart”
—a pure heart—
that makes us valuable to God.
And when we serve him in that way,
he will give us whatever we need,
regardless of our situation,
or circumstances,
to always serve him
in a way that he approves.